feat: point to point measurement (#2100)
cognitedata/reveal: documentation/docs/examples/point-to-point-measurement.mdx

---
id: point-to-point-measurement
title: Point to Point Measurement
description: Demo shows how to measure point to point distance in Reveal.
---

import { DemoWrapper } from '@site/docs/components/DemoWrapper';
import useBaseUrl from '@docusaurus/useBaseUrl';

> The `MeasurementTool` is a measuring tool for point to point distance with the 3D objects.
> This can be achieved by selecting a point on the 3D Object and drag the pointer to the destined point to get measurement of the distance.
> The tools default measurement is in meters, but the tool provides user to customise the measuring units.
> 
> The tool provides ability to change measuring line width & color.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `MeasurementTool` is a measuring tool for point to point distance in 3D models, by clicking to- and from-points. The default measurement unit is meters, but the tool provides callbacks to allow configuring the unit.

The tool provides ability to change measuring line width & color.
```

<DemoWrapper name="Cognite3DViewerDemo" />

## Point to point distance measurment

> To enter into point to point measurement mode, use `MeasurementTool.enterMeasurementMode()` which will have default line width & color.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To enter point-to-point measurement mode, use `MeasurementTool.enterMeasurementMode()`. This will register events for handling mouse clicks and touch events to allow placing the measurement end-points.
```

```jsx runnable
// import { MeasurementTool } from '@cognite/reveal/tools';

const measurementTool = new MeasurementTool(viewer);
measurementTool.enterMeasurementMode();
```
### Exit measurement
To exit from measurement mode, use `MeasurementTool.exitMeasurementMode()`.

```jsx runnable
// import { MeasurementTool } from '@cognite/reveal/tools';

const measurementTool = new MeasurementTool(viewer);
measurementTool.enterMeasurementMode();
measurementTool.exitMeasurementMode();

> ```

Reviewer: This example does nothing in essence. Instead, add an example to e.g. cancel measurements when user presses the `Esc`-key.

> ### Set width and color of the measuring line

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Set width and color of the measuring line
```

To change width and color of the line, use `MeasurementTool.setLineOptions(options: MeasurementOptions, meshObject?: THREE.Mesh)`. MeasurementOptions expects
  - `lineWidth` : number
  - `color` : number

```jsx runnable
// import { MeasurementTool } from '@cognite/reveal/tools';

const lineOptions = {
  lineWidth: 3,
  color: 0xff0000
};
const measurementTool = new MeasurementTool(viewer);
measurementTool.enterMeasurementMode();

> measurementTool.setLineOptions(lineOptions);

Reviewer: I'd switch these two. Does it even work to call `setLineOptions` after `enterMeasurementMode` after my changes?

Author: @larsmoa Below are different ways the tool supports

- `new MeasurementTool(viewer, options)` where options take `lineWidth` or/and `color` or/and `distanceToLabelCallback`.
- `MeasurementTool.setLineOptions(options)` here the next measuring line will have `options` `lineWidth` & `color`, the new measuring line.
- 'MeasurementTool.updateLineWidth(measurementId, lineWidth)` & `MeasurementTool.updateLineColor(measurementId, color)` where line width & color of certain measurement (identifed by Id) is update.

So do you expect the `setLineOptions` to consider both width & color than partial inputs?

```

> It's also possible to apply custom label content for the measurment.
> The tool provides option of custom callback for the users. `MeasurementOptions.distanceToLabelCallback` can be
> used to trigger custom operation like changing the measuring units to feet:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Change unit

It's also possible to apply custom label content for the measurement.
The tool provides a callback, `MeasurementOptions.distanceToLabelCallback`, that can be
used to trigger custom operation like changing the measuring units to feet:
```

```jsx runnable
// import { MeasurementTool } from '@cognite/reveal/tools';

const measurementTool = new MeasurementTool(viewer, {distanceToLabelCallback: (distanceInMeters) => {
      // 1 meter = 3.281 feet
      return `${(distanceInMeters * 3.281).toFixed(2)} ft`;
     }});
measurementTool.enterMeasurementMode();
```

> ### Get all measurement

Reviewer: The `getAllMeasurement()` functionality doesn't make any meaning to me. It currently returns `THREE.Mesh` or something, without any information about the actual measurements. Instead, return e.g. a struct:
```
struct Measurement {
   readonly measurementId: number; // An ID that can be used to e.g. remove measurement
   readonly startPoint: THREE.Vector3;
   readonly endPoint: THREE.Vector3;
   readonly distanceInMeters: number;
}
```

To retrive all measurements added in the viewer, we can provide `MeasurementTool.getAllMeasurement()` which will
returns array of meshes `THREE.Mesh[]`.

```jsx
// import { MeasurementTool } from '@cognite/reveal/tools';

const measurementTool = new MeasurementTool(viewer);
measurementTool.enterMeasurementMode();

//get all measurements

> const measurements = measurementTool.getAllMeasurement();

Reviewer: Do "useful" stuff, this example doesn't do anything and there will not be any measurements available and the result is just discarded. E.g., when user has done a measurement - show an `alert` with the distance.

```

### Remove measurement
To remove a measurement from the viewer, we have `MeasurementTool.removeMeasurement(measurement: THREE.Mesh)`
  - 'measurement` : Measurement mesh to be removed.

```jsx
// import { MeasurementTool } from '@cognite/reveal/tools';

const measurementTool = new MeasurementTool(viewer);
measurementTool.enterMeasurementMode();

> //Before retrival of measurements, add some measurement

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// Before retrival of measurements, add some measurement
```

const measurements = measurementTool.getAllMeasurement();

> //Remove the first measurement added

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// Remove the first measurement added
```

> measurementTool.removeMeasurement(measurements[0]);

Reviewer: I'd prefer if this was interactive - e.g. delete measurement after N seconds after its created.

```

To remove all measurement from the viewer, use `MeasurementTool.removeAllMeasurement()`

```jsx
// import { MeasurementTool } from '@cognite/reveal/tools';

const measurementTool = new MeasurementTool(viewer);
measurementTool.enterMeasurementMode();

//add measurements

> //Remove all measurement from the viewer

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// Remove all measurement from the viewer
```

```jsx runnable
// import { MeasurementTool } from '@cognite/reveal/tools';

const measurementTool = new MeasurementTool(viewer);
measurementTool.enterMeasurementMode();
```
### Exit measurement
To exit from measurement mode, use `MeasurementTool.exitMeasurementMode()`.

```jsx runnable
// import { MeasurementTool } from '@cognite/reveal/tools';

const measurementTool = new MeasurementTool(viewer);
measurementTool.enterMeasurementMode();
measurementTool.exitMeasurementMode();
```

### Set width and color of the measuring line
To change width and color of the line, use `MeasurementTool.setLineOptions(options: MeasurementOptions, meshObject?: THREE.Mesh)`. MeasurementOptions expects
  - `lineWidth` : number
  - `color` : number

```jsx runnable
// import { MeasurementTool } from '@cognite/reveal/tools';

const lineOptions = {
  lineWidth: 3,
  color: 0xff0000
};
const measurementTool = new MeasurementTool(viewer);
measurementTool.enterMeasurementMode();
measurementTool.setLineOptions(lineOptions);
```

It's also possible to apply custom label content for the measurment.

> The tool provides option of custom callback for the users. 'MeasurementOptions.changeMeasurementLabelMetrics` can be

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The tool provides option of custom callback for the users. `MeasurementOptions.changeMeasurementLabelMetrics` can be
```

---
id: point-to-point-measurement
title: Point to point measurement
description: Demo shows how to measure point to point distance in Reveal.
---

import { DemoWrapper } from '@site/docs/components/DemoWrapper';
import useBaseUrl from '@docusaurus/useBaseUrl';

The `MeasurementTool` is a measuring tool for point to point distance in 3D models, by clicking to- and from-points. The default measurement unit is meters, but the tool provides callbacks to allow configuring the unit.

The tool provides ability to change measuring line width & color.

:::note
Recommended: `CameraControlsOptions.changeCameraTargetOnClick` should be set to `false` to avoid click event when `MeasurementTool` is active.
:::

<DemoWrapper name="Cognite3DViewerDemo" />

## Point to point distance measurment
To enter point-to-point measurement mode, use `MeasurementTool.enterMeasurementMode()`. This will register events for handling mouse clicks and touch events to allow placing the measurement end-points.

```jsx runnable
// import { MeasurementTool } from '@cognite/reveal/tools';

const measurementTool = new MeasurementTool(viewer);
measurementTool.enterMeasurementMode();
```
## Cancel measurement

> To exit from measurement mode, use `MeasurementTool.exitMeasurementMode()`.

Reviewer: Say something about what the example does. Noone knows that keycode 27 === Escape.

```jsx runnable
// import { MeasurementTool } from '@cognite/reveal/tools';

const measurementTool = new MeasurementTool(viewer);
measurementTool.enterMeasurementMode();
document.onkeydown = function(event) {
  event = event || window.event;
  if (event.keyCode == 27) {

>     measurementTool.exitMeasurementMode();

Reviewer: `exitMeasurementMode()` doesn't remove the line being added before the camera is nudged, trigger `Cognite3dViewer.requestRedraw()`

---
id: point-to-point-measurement
title: Point to point measurement
description: Demo shows how to measure point to point distance in Reveal.
---

import { DemoWrapper } from '@site/docs/components/DemoWrapper';
import useBaseUrl from '@docusaurus/useBaseUrl';

The `MeasurementTool` is a measuring tool for point to point distance in 3D models, by clicking to- and from-points. The default measurement unit is meters, but the tool provides callbacks to allow configuring the unit.

> When exiting from the tool, all the measurement will be removed from the `Cognite3DViewer`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When exiting from the tool, all the measurement will be removed from the `Cognite3DViewer`. Note that the precision the tool can provide is limited, and the tool should only be used for approximate measurement - not high precision measurement for e.g. construction.
```

When exiting from the tool, all the measurement will be removed from the `Cognite3DViewer`.

To effectively edit measuring line properties, tool is configurable with `MeasurementOptions` options to set
- Custom label content for each measurement.
- Size of line width in meters.
- Color of line.

:::note
Recommended: `CameraControlsOptions.changeCameraTargetOnClick` should be set to `false` to avoid click event registering for camera when `MeasurementTool` is active.
:::

<DemoWrapper name="Cognite3DViewerDemo" />

## Point to point distance measurment
To enter point-to-point measurement mode, use `MeasurementTool.enterMeasurementMode()`. This will register events for handling mouse clicks and touch events to allow placing the measurement end-points.

```jsx runnable
// import { MeasurementTool } from '@cognite/reveal/tools';

const measurementTool = new MeasurementTool(viewer);
measurementTool.enterMeasurementMode();
```

## Events
The tool exposes events for subscribing to measurement start, end & added.
```jsx runnable

> // import { MeasurementTool } from '@cognite/reveal/tools';
> 
> const measurementTool = new MeasurementTool(viewer);
> // Subscribe to measurement events
> measurementTool.on('started', () => alert('Measurement is active'));
> measurementTool.on('added', (measurement) => { alert(`Measurement added with ${JSON.stringify(measurement.distanceInMeters)} distance!`) });
> 
> measurementTool.enterMeasurementMode();

Reviewer: More interesting example:

```suggestion
// import { MeasurementTool } from '@cognite/reveal/tools';
const measurementTool = new MeasurementTool(viewer);

// Subscribe to measurement events
measurementTool.on('started', 
  () => viewer.domElement.style.cursor = 'crosshair');
measurementTool.on('ended', 
  () => viewer.domElement.attributeStyleMap.delete('cursor'));
measurementTool.on('added', (measurement) => { 
  alert(`Measurement added with ${JSON.stringify(measurement.distanceInMeters)} distance!`);
  measruementTool.exitMeasurementMode();
});

measurementTool.enterMeasurementMode();
```

---
id: point-to-point-measurement
title: Point to point measurement
description: Demo shows how to measure point to point distance in Reveal.
---

import { DemoWrapper } from '@site/docs/components/DemoWrapper';
import useBaseUrl from '@docusaurus/useBaseUrl';

The `MeasurementTool` is a measuring tool for point to point distance in 3D models, by clicking to- and from-points. The default measurement unit is meters, but the tool provides callbacks to allow configuring the unit.
When exiting from the tool, all the measurement will be removed from the `Cognite3DViewer`.

To effectively edit measuring line properties, tool is configurable with `MeasurementOptions` options to set
- Custom label content for each measurement.
- Size of line width in meters.
- Color of line.

> :::note
> Recommended: `CameraControlsOptions.changeCameraTargetOnClick` should be set to `false` to avoid click event registering for camera when `MeasurementTool` is active. Also avoid any custom click-handler that might interfere with the measurement tool.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:::tip
`CameraControlsOptions.changeCameraTargetOnClick` should be set to `false` to avoid click event registering for camera when `MeasurementTool` is active. Also avoid any custom click-handler that might interfere with the measurement tool.
```

:::

<DemoWrapper name="Cognite3DViewerDemo" />

## Point to point distance measurment

> To enter point-to-point measurement mode, use `MeasurementTool.enterMeasurementMode()`. This will register events for handling mouse clicks and touch events to allow placing the measurement end-points.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To enter point-to-point measurement mode, use `MeasurementTool.enterMeasurementMode()`. This will register events for handling mouse clicks and touch events to allow placing the measurement end-points. Note that the tool is optimized for use with mouse.

To exit measurement mode, call `exitMeasurementMode()`. The tool will also exit measurement mode if user presses Escape key.
```

```jsx runnable
// import { MeasurementTool } from '@cognite/reveal/tools';

const measurementTool = new MeasurementTool(viewer);
measurementTool.enterMeasurementMode();
```

## Events

> The tool exposes events for subscribing to measurement start, end & added.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The tool exposes events for subscribing to measurement start, end & added. In the below example, the mouse cursor is changed to a cross-hair while measuring.

```

```jsx runnable
// import { MeasurementTool } from '@cognite/reveal/tools';
const measurementTool = new MeasurementTool(viewer);

// Subscribe to measurement events
measurementTool.on('started', 
  () => viewer.domElement.style.cursor = 'crosshair');
measurementTool.on('ended', 
  () => viewer.domElement.attributeStyleMap.delete('cursor'));
measurementTool.on('added', (measurement) => { 
  alert(`Measurement added with ${JSON.stringify(measurement.distanceInMeters)} distance!`);
  measurementTool.exitMeasurementMode();
});

measurementTool.enterMeasurementMode();
```

## Cancel measurement
To exit from measurement mode, use `MeasurementTool.exitMeasurementMode()`.

```jsx runnable
// import { MeasurementTool } from '@cognite/reveal/tools';

const measurementTool = new MeasurementTool(viewer);
measurementTool.on('ended', () => alert('Measurement is ended'));

measurementTool.enterMeasurementMode();

//Add point to point distance measurement before existing from measurement tool.
setTimeout(() => {
  measurementTool.exitMeasurementMode();

>   viewer.requestRedraw();

Reviewer: Shouldn't be necessary. If it is, there is a bug that should be fixed.

```suggestion
  viewer.requestRedraw();
```

> ## Cancel measurement
> To exit from measurement mode, use `MeasurementTool.exitMeasurementMode()`.
> 
> ```jsx runnable
> // import { MeasurementTool } from '@cognite/reveal/tools';
> 
> const measurementTool = new MeasurementTool(viewer);
> measurementTool.on('ended', () => alert('Measurement is ended'));
> 
> measurementTool.enterMeasurementMode();
> 
> //Add point to point distance measurement before existing from measurement tool.
> setTimeout(() => {
>   measurementTool.exitMeasurementMode();
>   viewer.requestRedraw();
> }, 10000);
> ```

Reviewer: I think this section can be removed.
```suggestion
```

> ### Cancel active measurement
> To cancel the current/active measurement, the user can use `ESC` key which will kill the active measurement

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

### Mode of measurement
To get the mode of measurement `MeasurementTool.isInMeasurementMode`. It returns `true` if the measurement is active else `false`.

> ### Change unit
> 
> It's also possible to apply custom label content for the measurement.
> The tool provides a callback, `MeasurementOptions.distanceToLabelCallback`, that can be
> used to trigger custom operation like changing the measuring units to feet:
> 
> ```jsx runnable
> // import { MeasurementTool } from '@cognite/reveal/tools';
> 
> const measurementTool = new MeasurementTool(viewer, {distanceToLabelCallback: (distanceInMeters) => {
>   // 1 meter = 3.281 feet
>   return `${(distanceInMeters * 3.281).toFixed(2)} ft`;
>   }});
> measurementTool.enterMeasurementMode();
> ```

Reviewer: Shown in the example below
```suggestion
```

## Set width, color & label units of the measuring line
To change width, color of the line and label units, use `MeasurementTool.setLineOptions(options: MeasurementOptions)`. MeasurementOptions expects
  - `distanceToLabelCallback` : callback for custom operation on measurement labels
  - `lineWidth` : number - units in meters
  - `color` : THREE.color

The updated line width, color and label units will be applied for the next measuring distance.

```jsx runnable
// import { MeasurementTool } from '@cognite/reveal/tools';

const lineOptions = {
  distanceToLabelCallback: (distanceInMeters) => {
  // 1 meter = 100 centimeter
  return `${(distanceInMeters * 100).toFixed(2)} cm`;
  },
  lineWidth: 0.1,
  color: new THREE.Color(0xff0000)
};
const measurementTool = new MeasurementTool(viewer);
measurementTool.enterMeasurementMode();

//Update line width, color and label units for the next measuring line.
measurementTool.setLineOptions(lineOptions);
```

### Get all measurement

> To get all measurements added in the viewer, tool provides `MeasurementTool.getAllMeasurements()` API which will
> returns array of measurement `Measurement` having below details
>   - `measurementId` : unique id of measurement.
>   - `startPoint` : start point of the measurement.
>   - `endPoint` : end point of the measurement.
>   - `distanceInMeters` : measured distance in meters.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To get all measurements added the tool provides `MeasurementTool.getAllMeasurements()` which will 
return an array of measurements of type `Measurement`, having below details
  - `measurementId` : unique id of measurement.
  - `startPoint` : start point of the measurement.
  - `endPoint` : end point of the measurement.
  - `distanceInMeters` : measured distance in meters.
```

```jsx runnable
// import { MeasurementTool } from '@cognite/reveal/tools';

const measurementTool = new MeasurementTool(viewer);
measurementTool.enterMeasurementMode();

//add measurements

//get all measurements
setTimeout(() => {
  const measurements = measurementTool.getAllMeasurements();
  measurements.forEach(measurement => {
    alert(measurement.distanceInMeters);
  });
}, 6000);
```

> ### Change existing measurement property

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Change appearance of existing measurement
```

To change existing measurement line width or color, use `MeasurementTool.updateLineWidth(lineWidth: number)` or `MeasurementTool.updateLineColor(color: THREE.Color)`

```jsx runnable

> // import { MeasurementTool } from '@cognite/reveal/tools';
> 
> const measurementTool = new MeasurementTool(viewer);
> let measurementIterator;
> measurementTool.on('ended',
>   () => {
>     //Changes measurement line color & width to random values.
>     setInterval(() => {
>       const measurement = measurementIterator.next().value[1];
>       const color = Math.floor(Math.random() * 16777215);
>       measurementTool.updateLineColor(measurement, new THREE.Color(color));
> 
>       //Update line width
>       const lineWidth = (Math.random() * 1.0) + 0.2;
>       measurementTool.updateLineWidth(measurement, lineWidth);
>       viewer.requestRedraw();
>     }, 2000);
>   });
> measurementTool.enterMeasurementMode();
> 
> // Add few measurements
> 
> 
> //get all measurements
> setTimeout(() => {
>   measurementIterator = measurementTool.getAllMeasurements().entries();
>   measurementTool.exitMeasurementMode();
> }, 8000);

Reviewer: Unnecessary complex and convoluted example. Simplified.
```suggestion
// import { MeasurementTool } from '@cognite/reveal/tools';

const measurementTool = new MeasurementTool(viewer);
setInterval(() => {
  const measurements = measurementTool.getAllMeasurements();
  console.log(measurements);
  for (const measurement of measurements) {
    const color = Math.floor(Math.random() * 16777215);
    const lineWidth = (Math.random() * 1.0) + 0.2;
    measurementTool.updateLineColor(measurement, new THREE.Color(color));
    measurementTool.updateLineWidth(measurement, lineWidth);
  }
}, 200);
measurementTool.enterMeasurementMode();
```

```

### Remove measurement
To remove a measurement from the viewer, we have `MeasurementTool.removeMeasurement(measurement: Measurement)`
  - `measurement` : Measurement to be removed.

```jsx runnable
// import { MeasurementTool } from '@cognite/reveal/tools';

const measurementTool = new MeasurementTool(viewer);
measurementTool.enterMeasurementMode();

//remove the first measurement in the added list
setTimeout(() => {
  const measurements = measurementTool.getAllMeasurements();

  if (measurements[0]) {
    measurementTool.removeMeasurement(measurements[0]);

>     viewer.requestRedraw();

Reviewer: Bug if this is necessary.
```suggestion
```

  }
}, 6000);
```

To remove all measurement from the viewer, use `MeasurementTool.removeAllMeasurement()`

> ```jsx
> // Remove all measurement from the viewer
> measurementTool.removeAllMeasurement();
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> ### Label Visibility

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Label visibility
```
